OADP-4360 added troubleshooting info for PVR fail (#79245)
openshift/openshift-docs: backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/troubleshooting.adoc

----
====

[id="podvolumerestore-fails_{context}"]
== PodVolumeRestore fails to complete when StorageClass is NFS

> The restore operation fails when there are more than one volume during a NFS restore by using `Restic` or `Kopia`. `PodVolumeRestore` fails to complete successfully, and either fails with the following error or becomes stuck, before finally failing.

Author: Incorporated this change. Thanks.

> The restore operation fails when there are more than one volume during a NFS restore by using `Restic` or `Kopia`. `PodVolumeRestore` fails to complete successfully, and either fails with the following error or becomes stuck, before finally failing.

Author: Incorporated this change. Thanks.

.Error message

[source,terminal]
----
Velero: pod volume restore failed: data path restore failed: \
Failed to run kopia restore: Failed to copy snapshot data to the target: \
restore error: copy file: error creating file: \
open /host_pods/b4d...6/volumes/kubernetes.io~nfs/pvc-53...4e5/userdata/base/13493/2681: \
no such file or directory
----

.Cause

The NFS mount path is not unique for the two volumes to restore. As a result, the `velero` lock files use the same file on the NFS server during the restore, causing the `PodVolumeRestore` to fail.

.Solution

> You can resolve this issue by setting up a unique `pathPattern` for each volume, while defining the `StorageClass` for `nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` in the `deploy/class.yaml` file. Refer to the following `nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` `StorageClass`:

Author: Incorporated this change. Thanks.

----
====

[id="podvolumerestore-fails_{context}"]
== PodVolumeRestore fails to complete when StorageClass is NFS

> The restore operation fails when there are more than one volumes during a NFS restore by using `Restic` or `Kopia`. `PodVolumeRestore` fails to complete successfully and either fails with the following error or gets stuck for a long time, and fails finally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The restore operation fails when there are more than one volume during a NFS restore by using `Restic` or `Kopia`. `PodVolumeRestore` fails to complete successfully, and either fails with the following error or becomes stuck, before finally failing.
```

.Error message

[source,terminal]
----
Velero: pod volume restore failed: data path restore failed: \
Failed to run kopia restore: Failed to copy snapshot data to the target: \
restore error: copy file: error creating file: \
open /host_pods/b4d...6/volumes/kubernetes.io~nfs/pvc-53...4e5/userdata/base/13493/2681: \
no such file or directory
----

.Cause

> The NFS mount path is not unique for the two volumes to restore. Due to this, the `velero` lock files use the same file on the NFS server during the restore, causing the `PodVolumeRestore` to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NFS mount path is not unique for the two volumes to restore. As a result, the `velero` lock files use the same file on the NFS server during the restore, causing the `PodVolumeRestore` to fail.
```

.Solution

> You can resolve this issue by setting up a unique `pathPattern` for each volume while defining the `StorageClass` for `nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` in the `deploy/class.yaml` file. Refer to the following `nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` `StorageClass`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can resolve this issue by setting up a unique `pathPattern` for each volume, while defining the `StorageClass` for `nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` in the `deploy/class.yaml` file. Refer to the following `nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` `StorageClass`:
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: nfs-client
provisioner: k8s-sigs.io/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner 
parameters:
  pathPattern: "${.PVC.namespace}/${.PVC.annotations.nfs.io/storage-path}" # <1>
  onDelete: delete
----

> <1> Specifies a template for creating a directory path by using `PVC` metadata such as labels, annotations, name, or namespace. To specify metadata use `${.PVC.<metadata>}`. Example: To name a folder: `<pvc-namespace>-<pvc-name>`, use `${.PVC.namespace}-${.PVC.name}` as `pathPattern`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Specifies a template for creating a directory path by using `PVC` metadata such as labels, annotations, name, or namespace. To specify metadata, use `${.PVC.<metadata>}`. For example, to name a folder: `<pvc-namespace>-<pvc-name>`, use `${.PVC.namespace}-${.PVC.name}` as `pathPattern`.
```

> .Additional Resources
> 
> Refer to link:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner/blob/master/README.md[`nfs-subdir-external-provisioner` `StorageClass`] for more information.
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
